In this lecture we're going to be doing a still life drawing of a city street.
Now I really highly recommend that when you do your still lifes of landscapes and cityscapes that you
actually go to location it's actually pretty fun and exciting to sit down on a bench and sketch whatever
it is you see in front of yourself.
You'll actually probably get a lot of people sitting down and talking to you and asking to see your
artwork.
So let's go ahead and get started.
So the first thing I like to do when I'm drawing my cityscapes is I like to break down my image into
sections into fourths thirds and tense.
So let me show you what I mean.
So first we're going to break this down into thirds.
So this large building right here that takes up the bulk of my image takes up about two thirds of my
image.
So I can go ahead and add that in to my drawing.
So I'm starting just by lightly sketching it in and I'm just doing a large block so I'm not adding any
detail not adding any perspective yet.
I just want to do something very simple.
Next I'm going to go ahead and add in this building next to it and if we have a look at our reference
you'll see I can break this down and it's about one tenth of the way or maybe one sixth of the way into
our image.
So let's go ahead and draw that in.
And just copying the lines in the perspective that I see my image and I'm keeping this very rough and
very light because I can always come back and change it.
I just really want to start putting marks down because otherwise you're going to be too afraid to do
anything.
So you need to just start putting marks down as quickly as possible and don't worry about it too much.
Then I'm going to go ahead and add this building in and then I'm making sure that the sidewalk on the
other side of the street is following that same perspective.
And the further down the street we get it starts to curve around that I'm going to start blocking.
In this building right here and a that a little bit more detail with more perspective and I'll add that
perspective right there also on that side of the building to
and I can't stress enough how important it is to make sure that you keep everything very light in this
first phase because it's very hard to just go straight into drawing a perfect drawing of architecture.
And so by drawing it in very lightly you're going to be able to go in there and keep reworking it and
reworking it erasing areas and just making sure that all looks correct.
Now I'm going to go ahead and start adding in more detail.
I'm going to start by adding this doorway and then this window and you'll see I keep coming back to
that point over there towards the right side of my image and that's my vanishing point.
So this is a one point perspective drawing and I don't have an exact vanishing point but I'm just eyeballing
it so that everything is leading to the same vanishing point or the same area at least
then I'm blocking in sort of a truck back there and the lines for my windows.
And again it's not even close to perfect.
I'm just blocking it in at this point.
I can go in and add detail make it look more realistic later.
This is all about quickly getting those shapes in there and all you really want is you just want your
viewer to be able to understand what they're looking at.
At this point so just minimal detail is all you need.
I'm going to start blocking in this doorway a block in the window above it.
And I'm noticing that it's incorrect.
It's too tall and the door is too short.
So I had to fix that and still I'm keeping everything very very light.
We won't start adding darker detail in until later.
Then there is a lamp post right there so I'll add that in.
And then I saw that I was a bit shorter so I could go ahead.
Any race that and fix it and then I'll add in the detail for the top part of the window.
Go ahead and add in the bottom part of this doorway
important to remember that this doesn't have to be perfect especially in this phase.
It can be as rough as you need it to be and you really just want to get the lay out in there.
That's all this phase is about is about creating a lay out for you to follow later in your drawing.
So then you can start adding in your shadows or highlights and all of your detail numbness or adding
in a few little people just for scale so that we can understand how big these buildings are.
A few people back here and even these people are extremely rough.
They don't need to be perfect yet.
Now I'm laying down a piece of paper so I don't see much my drawing and now I'm going to start really
detailing in all of my stuff.
So starting with this lamp I darkened it in and I'm going to start turning in this doorway
and the point of this drawing is not to make it as realistic and detailed as possible.
It's just to understand the shapes the perspective the values and the highlights and shadows.
That's what this is all about.
It's about understanding and learning.
It's not about making a perfect product.
You'll see here that as I fill in these windows I'm not making it perfect I just want to get the idea
across that there are black windows and they have white frames around them
I'm going to add a little bit of shading in there some cast shadow and all darken in and out a little
bit of text there and you can't even see what it says because the point of this like I said is not to
make it perfect and exactly as you see it is just to study it and understand what's going on in this
image.
Go ahead and Durkee this parking meter.
And then there's sort of a pole sticking off right there and another one right there too.
And it has a flag hanging off of it.
So add in that flag
and then start detailing this molding on the building and I'm just jumping around from thing to thing
because I don't want to overwork an area
and I'll go ahead and start adding in the ledge on the window way or window opening and then I can start
adding in those window panes just by adding dark squares of value like so then I'll have some shadow
to that side.
Might add and this molding on my building
and then I'm going to start breaking this up for the pattern that's going to be applied to it because
it's kind of a stone stacked brick type of building.
So I'll go ahead and Aben that detail
and I'll add in the shadow underneath that bottom edge.
And so what I really want you to understand from watching me do this is that it doesn't have to be perfect.
The main idea is that you get your viewers to understand what they're looking at understand what the
object is and how the light is playing off of it.
Nothing has to be perfect.
This isn't a final fully rendered finished drawing.
It's just a study.
Then it must start darkening the sidewalk area and then move on to this doorway.
So when to start by darkening this area down here and detailing my guy out a little bit more then I'll
add a hard edge to that.
And now I want to Abyan the detail that I see within this doorway.
So there's sort of a dark alleyway going down that direction.
And then I notice there's some shadow up there.
Now I'm going to break it up and to the individual windowpanes like so
that I'm going to go ahead and start working on this door in the doorway.
And just like with her banana drawn I'm just trying to draw exactly what I see the same values the same
shapes and I'm just trying to understand how this image is working and how the light is playing off
of each object.
That's all I want to do.
Next I'm going to we're adding sort of that tone stone texture along the side of this building.
I will break it up in two separate areas.
Then I'm going to bring this crown molding across the top of this building right here.
And I had that same edge to my building so I can add in those lines crossed.
So those are kind of individual stone slabs going across there.
Them I'll start adding the end to this side of the building.
Next most are adding the detail on the top of this doorway or the top of this arch.
Make sure that you're looking back at your image or the still life that's actually in front of you and
always be looking back at it for reference.
All that information you need is right there in front of you.
You just have to look at it and find it.
So if you don't know if there should be a shadow in a certain area or you have to do is look at your
reference look at the still life in front of you.
And that will tell you exactly where to put that chateau and Mr. adding this balcony up here.
And again I'm not getting into too much detail I'm just adding enough detail that you get the idea that
there's sort of a cast iron balcony right there
just adding a dark shadow edge to that and then adding the molding that goes across that edge of the
building.
And then start adding in the grid system right here for my window panes.
And then I can start filling those in individually like I did with the window panes beneath it.
So even though these aren't perfect black squares they get the idea across that there are window panes
in this window and that's all we need is we just need to get the idea crossed.
I need to get the idea across through highlights and shadows values and lines.
Then I would go ahead and continue those lines across that side of the building.
Now add that Legin and then I'm going to go ahead and add in these windows on the second story and the
third story.
So then I'll add the detail on top of that window
and I'll add in this sludge and I kind of added a round curve to it because that's what I'm picking
up from my reference.
It's sort of rounded balcony and I can go ahead and continue these lines across here.
So
then I'm dividing the subsecond fill in each individual window pane.
All right.
So that brings us to the end of this lecture.
So I don't want this to go on for too long so I'm not going to finish the entire drawing but you should
get the idea of how to create a still life drawing of a landscape or a cityscape.
This is really important if you want to create environmental designs to understand how objects play
off of each other on a large scale such as buildings mountains trees whatever it may be.
It's really important to do studies of this and you're going to really start discovering things that
you didn't understand about the world that you'll start to understand through value highlights and shadows
and shape perspective and many other things.
Thanks for watching this lecture and I really look forward to seeing you in the next one.